# Unit XII Assignment I
*By Nathan Windisch*

## PI: Tools and Techniques Used in IT Support
There are a few different tools that can be used within IT Support, and I shall list some of them and the technique that they are used in

### Virtual Network Computing
Virtual Network Computing, or VNC, is a method for IT Support Technicians to be able to access client's computers from all over the world. The technology that it uses is the ability to view and interact with a computer across the Internet. This usually includes access to view the monitor and manipulate the keyboard and mouse, but it can also allow the Technician access to listen to the sound output of the system, view video feed from peripherals such as webcams, and listen to or even manipulate the sound input to the system via a microphone. Two main services used for VNC are TeamViewer, which is an industry standard in technical support operations, and Join.Me, a relatively new player in the field with a much easier user interface. Both have free plans, but if a business wants to utilize all the tools available to them then they should purchase a business licence of some sort. 

### VoIP Communication
Another key tool that IT Support Technicians have at their disposal is Voice Over Internet Protocol, or VoIP. This allows Support Engineers to communicate with clients quickly, easily and clearly without the need for extensive setup times. The client simply needs to download the program and connect to the server, in most cases. There are a few main contenders for VoIP communication, the first being Skype by Microsoft. Skype is the most well known program out of my three examples, but it is normally used by private citizens for communication between friends and family, or Skype Business which is commonly used in internal systems in large companies as a fast and secure VoIP and IM (Instant Messaging) application. Another piece of software that can be used is TeamSpeak3, which is a server based model rather that peer-to-peer which is what Skype is. With TeamSpeak3, the client connects to a server and can then speak to everyone connected to that server, as long as they have the correct permission nodes and are in the correct voice channels. A positive to using TeamSpeak3 over Skype is that it runs on a server based model with clients connecting to one IP address or domain name, making it more centralised. A downside to using TeamSpeak3 is that it is much less known than Skype, meaning that less users will have it. Also, the setup process for TeamSpeak3 is relatively long, which may put clients off. The final piece of software that I shall be discussing in this segment is Discord, which is a free desktop, mobile and web application with both a graphical and command line user interface. Discord is primarily used in the PC video gaming community, but due to the fact that it has a web application it can be easily installed and utilized by anyone. While Discord uses a server-based model, it allows users to join servers to talk to large numbers of people or once, while still letting users add each other as contacts and calling them, imitating the peer-to-peer aspect of Skype without the possible security risks of the latter. Discord servers can also be much more easily accessed, as an invite link can be set to permanent and then an easier web link can be set to redirect to it. The final benefit of Discord is that it allows for users to access it via the web, reducing setup time.

### Defragmentation
As a computer gets used more and more, the disk will access commonly used files again and again. This can result in the file being spread and cloned around the hard drive for easier access. While this may sound like a good idea, this can clog up a system and slow everything down. A way to remedy this is to use Disk Defragmentation software. Within Microsoft's Windows there is a built in defragmentation software that can be found by pressing the Start Key and typing in "defrag". This software will remove any excess files. Another thing that this software does is remove any corrupt files or excess bytes left behind when moving around files. It is important to note that this software will only really work on Hard Disk Drives, or HDDs, due to the method that they store data as they are physical disks, whereas Solid State Drives, or SSDs, will not work as they are merely expanded flash memory and, as such, cannot have any real difference when defragging them. In fact, due to the way that SSDs work, they have a large but limited number of writes. This means that when defragging a Solid State Drive you can actually be doing more harm than good. Also, due to the way that the `ext`, the main file system that many Linux distributions use, there is no real point in running a defragmentation tool as it will not create much of a performance boost, whereas Windows' NTFS can be more prone to fragmentation, meaning that it will have a greater effect.

### Spam Removal
Another common weapon in a Technical Support Agent's arsenal is the ability to critically find spam, useless or otherwise miselanious files and remove them. A common method is for the Technical Support Agent to get the user to place any locations of files that they think may be important into a text file, so that they can be backed up, including a list of commonly used software. The technician will then clone all of this data onto a secondary hard drive and keep them safe, before 'nuking the system from orbit' or wiping all files on the system. This will speed up the system tremenously due to the fact that only the essential software and files will be on the new system.

* Software Diagnostics (AntiVirus)
* Hardware Diagnostics
* Control Panel
* Task Manager/HTOP
