Computers have always been a part of my life. From an early age, I have always had an interest in them. My father used to work in IBM until he had me, and then worked in the IT sector for local primary and secondary schools; I think his passion for technology inspired mine.

I recall when I was just three years old, he took me around the IT classroom of the local secondary school he was working at. I was amazed at the sheer amount of computers in one room, all interconnected and connected to the wider world as well. I was in awe. Thinking back, the computers had rather low specifications and did not run particularly well, with lots of bloatware and badly coded programs, they would not be particularly suitable for any school or workplace now, in 2016.

That is one of the main things that fascinates me about computers, about how far we have come in just a few decades. In the early 1940s, people who were highly regarded in the technological world believed that there be less than ten computers in the world. Now, we have an estimated 20 billion devices connected to the internet right now, and a forecast 50 billion devices connected by 2020. In my opinion, it goes to show how powerful humanity can be, and it also shows how far we can still go. In the past we only had a small grasp of how big a part of our lives computers would have become. I believe that we are still in that phase: we still have a long way to go until we have unlocked the full potential that computers can offer us.

I feel that the number of subjects that a student has to study at GCSE is both too much and too varied. personally, I feel much more comfortable and focused now that I am doing subjects that I enjoy, rather than a wide range of subject that I may require in the future. Now that I am at UTC Reading, it take triple BTEC IT and Computer Science A-Level, and it is within these subjects that I feel that I can perform at my best. As the old Chinese adage goes, "Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life".

When I was in secondary school, I spent my Thursday afternoons helping out at my primary school where I would teach children from Year 4 to Year 6 how to code in a programming language called Scratch. Over the course of three years, I believe that we inspired at least 50 young people with the wonders of coding, and I believe that we helped about 10 people find their passion, who will go on to have jobs within the technology industry. Because of this, I found the job incredibly satisfying.

When I was in secondary school I also helped out at the same primary school on a Tuesday afternoons helping children from Year 3 and 4 to learn how to develop their reading skills. I found this to be a wonderful pastime, as I could see all of the children under my care learning how to read and growing as people because of it. I also like to think that these two activities that I did grew me as a person, as I was able to help people with less of an understanding of things as I did, resulting in an increase in empathy for those who need help with things relating to technology.

I also spent aproximatly nine years in the Scouts. The activities that I did there helped me grow as a person. I am now more comfort  It was because of this that I want to get a job in technical support so that I can help people who are disadvantaged and do not know how to fix their own devices.
